The purpose of this project was to take various files filled with data from measurements of subjects performing various activities by smartphones, and combine them and perform operations on the data that would create tidy and usable files to perform further analysis on the data.

There were seven different files to work with: 30 numbered subjects from a test and training set, measurement data from the test and training set, numbered activity labels for the training and test sets, and the labels for the different measurements of the data in the test and training sets. There were also extra files that did not belong in the final dataset because it did not contain relevant measurement data. These data were labelled inertial data and were not included in the final dataset. I created a script, named, tidy_data, to clean and tidy the data from the several separate files changed to one dataframe.

There were 7352 records in the training set and 2947 records in the test set. There were 561 features, or types of measurements in the dataset. I first used cbind to merge the training subjects, the training data and the training labels. Then I used cbind to merge the test subjects the test data and the test labels. I then combined the test and training data using rbind. This created a 10299 row dataframe with 593 columns. Then I labeled each column with the names of the 561 features, the column labelled as subject and the type of exersize the subject underwent.

I selected columns that contained only the standard deviation and means of measurements as noted in the instructiongs. I used the dplyr package to select the rows that matched specific strings in the column names. I then relabelled the Type of Exersize column by mapping specific exersize names to the integer variables located in the Type of Exersize column. I followed the Activity Label text file to change the variable names from integer to characters specifying the type of exersize. The final transformation I made on the dataset was to set the Subject number and type of exersize to factor variables in order to be able to use the group by function in the other script.

In the second script, I take the dataframe in the first script, tiny_data, and group by the subject number first and the type of exersize second, then applied the means to the groups accordingly. I then return the dataframe with the means of measurements for each subject and type of exersize the subject underwent.
